To simulate exception handling inside of our application,
I'm going to first open up our test and scroll to the bottom and
copy the testDelete method and paste it below that.
I'm going to change the name of it to testException and we'll
call a getForObject on it with a URL of test.
And it's going to want a return type of Ride.class,
which we don't really care about because it's always
going to just throw an exception.
So this is what our method looks like.
To call this, let's go ahead and define that test URL inside of our application.
Now if I open up my src/main/java RightController,
I'm going to do something quite similar to what we just did there.
I'm going to grab this batch method that we had created
and copy and paste that down below.
And I did the batch method because it's the closest
to what we're trying to do here.
So I'm going to change the value of that to test,
and for the ResponseBody object we can leave that,
the name, I'm just going to leave it test as well,
and then inside of here I'm going to throw a new DataAccessException,
and it takes a string for the constructor.
So we'll say Testing exception thrown.
We'll save this.
Now let's go ahead and run this and see what happens.
So if I start my server up, make sure there's no errors upon startup,
and everything looks fine there,
I'm going to go back to the test method that we created
and right‑click on it and say Run As, JUnit Test,
it should come back and give me a stack trace saying that it failed.
And this is the exact response we were expecting to get,
an ugly error with a stack trace that was propagated clear back to our client.
Let's see how we can make that a little bit better of an experience for them.
Now I will say there are lots of ways you can
deliver messages back to the end user, and we're not going to cover all of them,
we're just going to show you one good way using the exception
handling mechanism to give them a better error message.
So let's right‑click on src/main/java and say New,
Package, and we're going to put in here com.pluralsight.util and click Finish.
We're going to click on that newly created package and create a class.
I'm going to call this class ServiceError. I'll click Finish.
And this is a very simple class.
We're going to have two field member variables inside of here
called private int code and private String message.
We're going to do two things inside of here.
First,
let's right‑click on these and say Source, Generate Getters and
Setters, and make sure you have both of them selected, code and
message, and click OK. And then the second thing we're going to do is
create some constructors inside of here.
So we want to go ahead and say public ServiceError, and we'll just create
a default no arguments constructor, and then the second one we'll do is
public ServiceError that takes an int code and a String message and
assigns those to our two member variables. So we'll say this.code = code
and this.message = message.
We'll save those. And I'm going to right‑click and say Source,
Format, and it should clean up that for us, as well as a
Source, Sort members, and click OK.
Now this looks like what we're expecting to see inside of our application.
We can go ahead and go back to our controller, and at the bottom
of our application inside of our controller,
let's add an exception handler here.
So we'll say @ExceptionHandler, and this is an exception
handler for any RuntimeException that is thrown.
Now we can generate the body of the method that we
want to to handle these responses.
So we'll say public ResponseEntity, and this class uses
generics, so we're going to pass in a ServiceError,
the service error that we just created, and we want to say handle and
pass in the RuntimeException that we are handling, and give that a
variable name of ex. Now that we've got the body,
let's put the meat of this exception handler in here. We'll say ServiceError.
And this is just the instance that we're creating to pass back to that end user.
So we'll say ServiceError = new ServiceError. And, you may have different
types of errors that you pass back to your user. For our sample, we're
just going to pass back the OK value. You could have some specific ones
coded to your application, but that's really outside the scope of what
we're doing for this example.
So we're going to say OK.value, and then we're going to say ex.getMessage.
Now we want to return that new ResponseEntity and we're going to pass back
our error instance that we just created and an HttpStatus of ok. Now, our
exception that gets thrown up above of our DataAccessException will get
handled down below by our exception handler.
Let's try this out.
I'm going to exit full screen,
go back to our test, and I'm going to right‑click and say Run As, JUnit Test.
Once this runs, we'll see we have a green bar now, and in our console we
have the error message from before in there, but now when we ran there
is no big stack trace that's dumped out to our application. So it
gracefully handled that message, and you can go ahead and look at the
response body that comes back, but that's just one way we can grab those
exceptions from our database tand pass back a more user friendly to our client.